docs: add local registry cache documentation (#2237)
talos-systems/talos: docs/website/content/v0.6/en/guides/local/registry-cache.md

---
title: Registry Cache
---

In this guide we will create a set of local caching Docker registry proxies to minimize local cluster startup time.

> When running Talos locally, pulling images from Docker registries might take significant amount of time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When running Talos locally, pulling images from Docker registries might take a significant amount of time.
```

> We spin up local  caching pass-through registries to cache images and configure local Talos cluster to use those proxies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We spin up local caching pass-through registries to cache images and configure a local Talos cluster to use those proxies.
```

> Similar approach might be used to run Talos in production in air-gapped environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A similar approach might be used to run Talos in production in air-gapped environments.
```

It can be also used to verify that all the images are available in local registries.

## Requirements

> The follow are requirements for creating set of caching proxies:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The follow are requirements for creating the set of caching proxies:
```

- Docker 18.03 or greater
- Local cluster requirements for either [docker](docker) or [fireracker](firecracker).

## Launch the Caching Docker Registry Proxies

With default configuration, Talos pulls from `docker.io`, `k8s.gcr.io` and `quay.io`.
If your configuration is different, you might need to modify the commands below:

```bash
docker run -d -p 5000:5000 \
    -e REGISTRY_PROXY_REMOTEURL=https://registry-1.docker.io \
    --restart always \

>     --name registry-docker.io registry:2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    --name registry-docker.io registry:2.5
```

Author: `:2` should be fine here (we can use newer version, because upstream registry supports modern schema)

in fact, `:2` is higher version than `:2.5` (that is confusing, but that's how things are)

docker run -d -p 5001:5000 \
    -e REGISTRY_PROXY_REMOTEURL=https://k8s.gcr.io \
    --restart always \

>     --name registry-k8s.gcr.io registry:2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    --name registry-k8s.gcr.io registry:2.5
```

docker run -d -p 5002:5000 \
    -e REGISTRY_PROXY_REMOTEURL=https://quay.io \
    --restart always \
    --name registry-quay.io registry:2.5
```

> Note: Proxies are started as docker containers, and they're automatically configured to start with Docker daemon.
Please note that `quay.io` proxy doesn't support recent Docker image schema, so we run older registry image version (2.5).

> As a registry container can only handle single upstream Docker registry, we launch a container per upstream, each on its own

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a registry container can only handle a single upstream Docker registry, we launch a container per upstream, each on its own
```

> host port (5000, 5001, 5002).

Reviewer: I think the linter may hit you on this since the sentence is not on a single line.

Author: I think linter makes me start each sentence on a new line, but it doesn't force whole sentence to be on a single line.

## Using Caching Registries with `firecracker` Local Cluster

> With [firecracker](firecracker) local cluster, bridge interface is created on the host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With a [firecracker](firecracker) local cluster, a bridge interface is created on the host.
```

As registry containers expose their ports on the host, we can use bridge IP to direct proxy requests.

```bash
sudo talosctl cluster create --provisioner firecracker \
    --registry-mirror docker.io=http://10.5.0.1:5000 \
    --registry-mirror k8s.gcr.io=http://10.5.0.1:5001 \
    --registry-mirror quay.io=http://10.5.0.1:5002
```

> Talos local cluster should now start pulling via caching registries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Talos local cluster should now start pulling via caching registries.
```

This can be verified via registry logs, e.g. `docker logs -f registry-docker.io`.

> First time cluster boots, images are pulled and cached, so next cluster boot should be much faster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first time the cluster boots, images are pulled and cached, so the next cluster boot should be much faster.
```

> Note: `10.5.0.1` is a bridge IP with default network (`10.5.0.0/24`), if using custom `--cidr`, value should be adjusted accordingly.

## Using Caching Registries with `docker` Local Cluster

> With [docker](docker) local clustwer we can use docker bridge IP, default value for that IP is `172.17.0.1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With a [docker](docker) local cluster we can use the docker bridge IP, which has a default value of `172.17.0.1`.
```

> On Linux, docker bridge address can be inspected with `ip addr show docker0`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On Linux, the docker bridge address can be inspected with `ip addr show docker0`.
```

```bash
talosctl cluster create --provisioner docker \
    --registry-mirror docker.io=http://172.17.0.1:5000 \
    --registry-mirror k8s.gcr.io=http://172.17.0.1:5001 \
    --registry-mirror quay.io=http://172.17.0.1:5002
```

## Cleaning Up

To cleanup, run:

```bash
docker rm -f registry-docker.io
docker rm -f registry-k8s.gcr.io
docker rm -f registry-quay.io
```

> Note: Removing docker registry containers also removes the image cache.

> So if you plan to use caching registries, keep containers running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So if you plan to use caching registries, keep the containers running.
```
